 4
4
Crooks, the negro stable buck, had his bunk in the harness room; a
little shed that leaned off the wall of the barn. On one side of the
little room there was a square four–paned window, and on the other, a
narrow plank door leading into the barn. Crooks’ bunk was a long box
filled with straw, on which his blankets were flung. On the wall by the
window there were pegs on which hung broken harness in process of being
mended; strips of new leather; and under the window itself a little
bench for leather–working tools, curved knives and needles and balls of
linen thread, and a small hand riveter. On pegs were also pieces of
harness, a split collar with the horsehair stuffing sticking out, a
broken hame, and a trace chain with its leather covering split. Crooks
had his apple box over his bunk, and in it a range of medicine bottles,
both for himself and for the horses. There were cans of saddle soap and
a drippy can of tar with its paint brush sticking over the edge. And
scattered about the floor were a number of personal possessions; for,
being alone, Crooks could leave his things about, and being a stable
buck and a cripple, he was more permanent than the other men, and he had
accumulated more possessions than he could carry on his back.
Crooks possessed several pairs of shoes, a pair of rubber boots, a big
alarm clock and a single–barreled shotgun. And he had books, too; a
tattered dictionary and a mauled copy of the California civil code for
1905. There were battered magazines and a few dirty books on a special
shelf over his bunk. A pair of large gold–rimmed spectacles hung from a
nail on the wall above his bed.
This room was swept and fairly neat, for Crooks was a proud, aloof man.
He kept his distance and demanded that other people keep theirs. His
body was bent over to the left by his crooked spine, and his eyes lay
deep in his head, and because of their depth seemed to glitter with
intensity. His lean face was lined with deep black wrinkles, and he had
thin, pain–tightened lips which were lighter than his face.
It was Saturday night. Through the open door that led into the barn came
the sound of moving horses, of feet stirring, of teeth champing on hay,
of the rattle of halter chains. In the stable buck’s room a small
electric globe threw a meager yellow light.
Crooks sat on his bunk. His shirt was out of his jeans in back. In one
hand he held a bottle of liniment, and with the other he rubbed his
spine. Now and then he poured a few drops of the liniment into his
pink–palmed hand and reached up under his shirt to rub again. He flexed
his muscles against his back and shivered.
Noiselessly Lennie appeared in the open doorway and stood there looking
in, his big shoulders nearly filling the opening. For a moment Crooks
did not see him, but on raising his eyes he stiffened and a scowl came
on his face. His hand came out from under his shirt.
Lennie smiled helplessly in an attempt to make friends.
Crooks said sharply, “You got no right to come in my room. This here’s
my room. Nobody got any right in here but me.”
Lennie gulped and his smile grew more fawning. “I ain’t doing nothing,”
he said. “Just come to look at my puppy. And I seen your light,” he
explained.
“Well, I got a right to have a light. You go on get outta my room. I
ain’t wanted in the bunk house, and you ain’t wanted in my room.”
“Why ain’t you wanted?” Lennie asked.
“’Cause I’m black. They play cards in there, but I can’t play because
I’m black. They say I stink. Well, I tell you, you all of you stink to
me.”
Lennie flapped his big hands helplessly. “Ever’body went into town,” he
said. “Slim an’ George an’ ever’body. George says I gotta stay here an’
not get in no trouble. I seen your light.”
“Well, what do you want?”
“Nothing—I seen your light. I thought I could jus’ come in an’ set.”
Crooks stared at Lennie, and he reached behind him and took down the
spectacles and adjusted them over his pink ears and stared again. “I
don’t know what you’re doin’ in the barn anyway,” he complained. “You
ain’t no skinner. They’s no call for a bucker to come into the barn at
all. You ain’t no skinner. You ain’t got nothing to do with the horses.”
“The pup,” Lennie repeated. “I come to see my pup.”
“Well, go see your pup, then. Don’t come in a place where you’re not
wanted.”
Lennie lost his smile. He advanced a step into the room, then remembered
and backed to the door again. “I looked at ’em a little. Slim says I
ain’t to pet ’em very much.”
Crooks said, “Well, you been takin’ ’em out of the nest all the time. I
wonder the old lady don’t move ’em someplace else.”
“Oh, she don’t care. She lets me.” Lennie had moved into the room again.
Crooks scowled, but Lennie’s disarming smile defeated him. “Come on in
and set a while,” Crooks said. “’Long as you won’t get out and leave me
alone, you might as well set down.” His tone was a little more friendly.
“All the boys gone into town, huh?”
“All but old Candy. He just sets in the bunk house sharpening his pencil
and sharpening and figuring.”
Crooks adjusted his glasses. “Figuring? What’s Candy figuring about?”
Lennie almost shouted, “’Bout the rabbits.”
“You’re nuts,” said Crooks. “You’re crazy as a wedge. What rabbits you
talkin’ about?”
“The rabbits we’re gonna get, and I get to tend ’em, cut grass an’ give
’em water, an’ like that.”
“Jus’ nuts,” said Crooks. “I don’t blame the guy you travel with for
keepin’ you outa sight.”
Lennie said quietly. “It ain’t no lie. We’re gonna do it. Gonna get a
little place an’ live on the fatta the lan’.”
Crooks settled himself more comfortably on his bunk. “Set down,” he
invited. “Set down on the nail keg.”
Lennie hunched down on the little barrel. “You think it’s a lie,” Lennie
said, “But it ain’t no lie. Ever’ word’s the truth, an’ you can ast
George.”
Crooks put his dark chin into his pink palm. “You travel aroun’ with
George, don’t ya?”
“Sure. Me an’ him goes ever’ place together.”
Crooks continued. “Sometimes he talks, and you don’t know what the hell
he’s talkin’ about. Ain’t that so?” He leaned forward, boring Lennie
with his deep eyes. “Ain’t that so?”
“Yeah … sometimes.”
“Jus’ talks on, an’ you don’t know what the hell it’s all about?”
“Yeah … sometimes. But … not always.”
Crooks leaned forward over the edge of the bunk. “I ain’t a southern
negro,” he said. “I was born right here in California. My old man had a
chicken ranch, ’bout ten acres. The white kids come to play at our
place, an’ sometimes I went to play with them, and some of them was
pretty nice. My ol’ man didn’t like that. I never knew till long later
why he didn’t like that. But I know now.” He hesitated, and when he
spoke again his voice was softer. “There wasn’t another colored family
for miles around. And now there ain’t a colored man on this ranch an’
there’s jus’ one family in Soledad.” He laughed. “If I say something,
why it’s just a nigger sayin’ it.”
Lennie asked, “How long you think it’ll be before them pups will be old
enough to pet?”
Crooks laughed again. “A guy can talk to you an’ be sure you won’t go
blabbin’. Couple of weeks an’ them pups’ll be all right. George knows
what he’s about. Jus’ talks, an’ you don’t understand nothing.” He
leaned forward excitedly. “This is just a nigger talkin’, an’ a
busted–back nigger. So it don’t mean nothing, see? You couldn’t remember
it anyways. I seen it over an’ over—a guy talkin’ to another guy and it
don’t make no difference if he don’t hear or understand. The thing is,
they’re talkin’, or they’re settin’ still not talkin’. It don’t make no
difference, no difference.” His excitement had increased until he
pounded his knee with his hand. “George can tell you screwy things, and
it don’t matter. It’s just the talking. It’s just bein’ with another
guy. That’s all.” He paused.
His voice grew soft and persuasive. “S’pose George don’t come back no
more. S’pose he took a powder and just ain’t coming back. What’ll you do
then?”
Lennie’s attention came gradually to what had been said. “What?” he
demanded.
“I said s’pose George went into town tonight and you never heard of him
no more.” Crooks pressed forward some kind of private victory. “Just
s’pose that,” he repeated.
“He won’t do it,” Lennie cried. “George wouldn’t do nothing like that. I
been with George a long time. He’ll come back tonight——” But the doubt
was too much for him. “Don’t you think he will?”
Crooks’ face lighted with pleasure in his torture. “Nobody can’t tell
what a guy’ll do,” he observed calmly. “Le’s say he wants to come back
and can’t. S’pose he gets killed or hurt so he can’t come back.”
Lennie struggled to understand. “George won’t do nothing like that,” he
repeated. “George is careful. He won’t get hurt. He ain’t never been
hurt, ’cause he’s careful.”
“Well, s’pose, jus’ s’pose he don’t come back. What’ll you do then?”
Lennie’s face wrinkled with apprehension. “I don’ know. Say, what you
doin’ anyways?” he cried. “This ain’t true. George ain’t got hurt.”
Crooks bored in on him. “Want me ta tell ya what’ll happen? They’ll take
ya to the booby hatch. They’ll tie ya up with a collar, like a dog.”
Suddenly Lennie’s eyes centered and grew quiet, and mad. He stood up and
walked dangerously toward Crooks. “Who hurt George?” he demanded.
Crooks saw the danger as it approached him. He edged back on his bunk to
get out of the way. “I was just supposin’,” he said. “George ain’t hurt.
He’s all right. He’ll be back all right.”
Lennie stood over him. “What you supposin’ for? Ain’t nobody goin’ to
suppose no hurt to George.”
Crooks removed his glasses and wiped his eyes with his fingers. “Jus’
set down,” he said. “George ain’t hurt.”
Lennie growled back to his seat on the nail keg. “Ain’t nobody goin’ to
talk no hurt to George,” he grumbled.
Crooks said gently, “Maybe you can see now. You got George. You knowhe’s goin’ to come back. S’pose you didn’t have nobody. S’pose you
couldn’t go into the bunk house and play rummy ’cause you was black.
How’d you like that? S’pose you had to sit out here an’ read books. Sure
you could play horseshoes till it got dark, but then you got to read
books. Books ain’t no good. A guy needs somebody—to be near him.” He
whined, “A guy goes nuts if he ain’t got nobody. Don’t make no
difference who the guy is, long’s he’s with you. I tell ya,” he cried,
“I tell ya a guy gets too lonely an’ he gets sick.”
“George gonna come back,” Lennie reassured himself in a frightened
voice. “Maybe George come back already. Maybe I better go see.”
Crooks said, “I didn’t mean to scare you. He’ll come back. I was talkin’
about myself. A guy sets alone out here at night, maybe readin’ books or
thinkin’ or stuff like that. Sometimes he gets thinkin’, an’ he got
nothing to tell him what’s so an’ what ain’t so. Maybe if he sees
somethin’, he don’t know whether it’s right or not. He can’t turn to
some other guy and ast him if he sees it too. He can’t tell. He got
nothing to measure by. I seen things out here. I wasn’t drunk. I don’t
know if I was asleep. If some guy was with me, he could tell me I was
asleep, an’ then it would be all right. But I jus’ don’t know.” Crooks
was looking across the room now, looking toward the window.
Lennie said miserably, “George wun’t go away and leave me. I know George
wun’t do that.”
The stable buck went on dreamily, “I remember when I was a little kid on
my old man’s chicken ranch. Had two brothers. They was always near me,
always there. Used to sleep right in the same room, right in the same
bed—all three. Had a strawberry patch. Had an alfalfa patch. Used to
turn the chickens out in the alfalfa on a sunny morning. My brothers’d
set on a fence rail an’ watch ’em—white chickens they was.”
Gradually Lennie’s interest came around to what was being said. “George
says we’re gonna have alfalfa for the rabbits.”
“What rabbits?”
“We’re gonna have rabbits an’ a berry patch.”
“You’re nuts.”
“We are too. You ast George.”
“You’re nuts.” Crooks was scornful. “I seen hunderds of men come by on
the road an’ on the ranches, with their bindles on their back an’ that
same damn thing in their heads. Hunderds of them. They come, an’ they
quit an’ go on; an’ every damn one of ’em’s got a little piece of land
in his head. An’ never a God damn one of ’em ever gets it. Just like
heaven. Ever’body wants a little piece of lan’. I read plenty of books
out here. Nobody never gets to heaven, and nobody gets no land. It’s
just in their head. They’re all the time talkin’ about it, but it’s jus’
in their head.” He paused and looked toward the open door, for the
horses were moving restlessly and the halter chains clinked. A horse
whinnied. “I guess somebody’s out there,” Crooks said. “Maybe Slim. Slim
comes in sometimes two, three times a night. Slim’s a real skinner. He
looks out for his team.” He pulled himself painfully upright and moved
toward the door. “That you, Slim?” he called.
Candy’s voice answered. “Slim went in town. Say, you seen Lennie?”
“Ya mean the big guy?”
“Yeah. Seen him around any place?”
“He’s in here,” Crooks said shortly. He went back to his bunk and lay
down.
Candy stood in the doorway scratching his bald wrist and looking blindly
into the lighted room. He made no attempt to enter. “Tell ya what,
Lennie. I been figuring out about them rabbits.”
Crooks said irritably, “You can come in if you want.”
Candy seemed embarrassed. “I do’ know. ’Course, if ya want me to.”
“Come on in. If ever’body’s comin’ in, you might just as well.” It was
difficult for Crooks to conceal his pleasure with anger.
Candy came in, but he was still embarrassed. “You got a nice cozy little
place in here,” he said to Crooks. “Must be nice to have a room all to
yourself this way.”
“Sure,” said Crooks. “And a manure pile under the window. Sure, it’s
swell.”
Lennie broke in, “You said about them rabbits.”
Candy leaned against the wall beside the broken collar while he
scratched the wrist stump. “I been here a long time,” he said. “An’
Crooks been here a long time. This’s the first time I ever been in his
room.”
Crooks said darkly, “Guys don’t come into a colored man’s room very
much. Nobody been here but Slim. Slim an’ the boss.”
Candy quickly changed the subject. “Slim’s as good a skinner as I ever
seen.”
Lennie leaned toward the old swamper. “About them rabbits,” he insisted.
Candy smiled. “I got it figured out. We can make some money on them
rabbits if we go about it right.”
“But I get to tend ’em,” Lennie broke in. “George says I get to tend
’em. He promised.”
Crooks interrupted brutally. “You guys is just kiddin’ yourself. You’ll
talk about it a hell of a lot, but you won’t get no land. You’ll be a
swamper here till they take you out in a box. Hell, I seen too many
guys. Lennie here’ll quit an’ be on the road in two, three weeks. Seems
like ever’ guy got land in his head.”
Candy rubbed his cheek angrily. “You God damn right we’re gonna do it.
George says we are. We got the money right now.”
“Yeah?” said Crooks. “An’ where’s George now? In town in a whore house.
That’s where your money’s goin’. Jesus, I seen it happen too many times.
I seen too many guys with land in their head. They never get none under
their hand.”
Candy cried, “Sure they all want it. Everybody wants a little bit of
land, not much. Jus’ som’thin’ that was his. Somethin’ he could live on
and there couldn’t nobody throw him off of it. I never had none. I
planted crops for damn near ever’body in this state, but they wasn’t my
crops, and when I harvested ’em, it wasn’t none of my harvest. But we
gonna do it now, and don’t make no mistake about that. George ain’t got
the money in town. That money’s in the bank. Me an’ Lennie an’ George.
We gonna have a room to ourself. Were gonna have a dog an’ rabbits an’
chickens. We’re gonna have green corn an’ maybe a cow or a goat.” He
stopped, overwhelmed with his picture.
Crooks asked, “You say you got the money?”
“Damn right. We got most of it. Just a little bit more to get. Have it
all in one month. George got the land all picked out, too.”
Crooks reached around and explored his spine with his hand. “I never
seen a guy really do it,” he said. “I seen guys nearly crazy with
loneliness for land, but ever’ time a whore house or a blackjack game
took what it takes.” He hesitated. “…If you … guys would want a
hand to work for nothing—just his keep, why I’d come an’ lend a hand. I
ain’t so crippled I can’t work like a son–of–a–bitch if I want to.”
“Any you boys seen Curley?”
They swung their heads toward the door. Looking in was Curley’s wife.
Her face was heavily made up. Her lips were slightly parted. She
breathed strongly, as though she had been running.
“Curley ain’t been here,” Candy said sourly.
She stood still in the doorway, smiling a little at them, rubbing the
nails of one hand with the thumb and forefinger of the other. And her
eyes traveled from one face to another. “They left all the weak ones
here,” she said finally. “Think I don’t know where they all went? Even
Curley, I know where they all went.”
Lennie watched her, fascinated; but Candy and Crooks were scowling down
away from her eyes. Candy said, “Then if you know, why you want to ast
us where Curley is at?”
She regarded them amusedly. “Funny thing,” she said. “If I catch any one
man, and he’s alone, I get along fine with him. But just let two of the
guys get together an’ you won’t talk. Jus’ nothing but mad.” She dropped
her fingers and put her hands on her hips. “You’re all scared of each
other, that’s what. Ever’ one of you’s scared the rest is goin’ to get
something on you.”
After a pause Crooks said, “Maybe you better go along to your own house
now. We don’t want no trouble.”
“Well, I ain’t giving you no trouble. Think I don’t like to talk to
somebody ever’ once in a while? Think I like to stick in that house alla
time?”
Candy laid the stump of his wrist on his knee and rubbed it gently with
his hand. He said accusingly, “You gotta husban’. You got no call
foolin’ aroun’ with other guys, causin’ trouble.”
The girl flared up. “Sure I gotta husban’. You all seen him. Swell guy,
ain’t he? Spends all his time sayin’ what he’s gonna do to guys he don’t
like, and he don’t like nobody. Think I’m gonna stay in that two–by–four
house and listen how Curley’s gonna lead with his left twict, and then
bring in the ol’ right cross? ‘One–two’ he says. ‘Jus the ol’ one–two
an’ he’ll go down.’” She paused and her face lost its sullenness and
grew interested. “Say—what happened to Curley’s han’?”
There was an embarrassed silence. Candy stole a look at Lennie. Then he
coughed. “Why … Curley … he got his han’ caught in a machine,
ma’am. Bust his han’.”
She watched for a moment, and then she laughed. “Baloney! What you think
you’re sellin’ me? Curley started som’pin’ he didn’ finish. Caught in a
machine—baloney! Why, he ain’t give nobody the good ol’ one–two since
he got his han’ bust. Who bust him?”
Candy repeated sullenly, “Got it caught in a machine.”
“Awright,” she said contemptuously. “Awright, cover ’im up if ya wanta.
Whatta I care? You bindle bums think you’re so damn good. Whatta ya
think I am, a kid? I tell ya I could of went with shows. Not jus’ one,
neither. An’ a guy tol’ me he could put me in pitchers….” She was
breathless with indignation. “—Sat’iday night. Ever’body out doin’
som’pin’. Ever’body! An’ what am I doin’? Standin’ here talkin’ to a
bunch of bindle stiffs—a nigger an’ a dum–dum and a lousy ol’
sheep—an’ likin’ it because they ain’t nobody else.”
Lennie watched her, his mouth half open. Crooks had retired into the
terrible protective dignity of the negro. But a change came over old
Candy. He stood up suddenly and knocked his nail keg over backward. “I
had enough,” he said angrily. “You ain’t wanted here. We told you you
ain’t. An’ I tell ya, you got floozy idears about what us guys amounts
to. You ain’t got sense enough in that chicken head to even see that we
ain’t stiffs. S’pose you get us canned. S’pose you do. You think we’ll
hit the highway an’ look for another lousy two–bit job like this. You
don’t know that we got our own ranch to go to, an’ our own house. We
ain’t got to stay here. We gotta house and chickens an’ fruit trees an’
a place a hunderd time prettier than this. An’ we got fren’s, that’s
what we got. Maybe there was a time when we was scared of gettin’
canned, but we ain’t no more. We got our own lan’, and it’s ours, an’ we
c’n go to it.”
Curley’s wife laughed at him. “Baloney,” she said. “I seen too many you
guys. If you had two bits in the worl’, why you’d be in gettin’ two
shots of corn with it and suckin’ the bottom of the glass. I know you
guys.”
Candy’s face had grown redder and redder, but before she was done
speaking, he had control of himself. He was the master of the situation.
“I might of knew,” he said gently. “Maybe you just better go along an’
roll your hoop. We ain’t got nothing to say to you at all. We know what
we got, and we don’t care whether you know it or not. So maybe you
better jus’ scatter along now, ’cause Curley maybe ain’t gonna like his
wife out in the barn with us ‘bindle stiffs.’”
She looked from one face to another, and they were all closed against
her. And she looked longest at Lennie, until he dropped his eyes in
embarrassment. Suddenly she said, “Where’d you get them bruises on your
face?”
Lennie looked up guiltily. “Who—me?”
“Yeah, you.”
Lennie looked to Candy for help, and then he looked at his lap again.
“He got his han’ caught in a machine,” he said.
Curley’s wife laughed. “O.K., Machine. I’ll talk to you later. I like
machines.”
Candy broke in. “You let this guy alone. Don’t you do no messing aroun’
with him. I’m gonna tell George what you says. George won’t have you
messin’ with Lennie.”
“Who’s George?” she asked. “The little guy you come with?”
Lennie smiled happily. “That’s him,” he said. “That’s the guy, an’ he’s
gonna let me tend the rabbits.”
“Well, if that’s all you want, I might get a couple rabbits myself.”
Crooks stood up from his bunk and faced her. “I had enough,” he said
coldly. “You got no rights comin’ in a colored man’s room. You got no
rights messing around in here at all. Now you jus’ get out, an’ get out
quick. If you don’t, I’m gonna ast the boss not to ever let you come in
the barn no more.”
She turned on him in scorn. “Listen, Nigger,” she said. “You know what I
can do to you if you open your trap?”
Crooks stared hopelessly at her, and then he sat down on his bunk and
drew into himself.
She closed on him. “You know what I could do?”
Crooks seemed to grow smaller, and he pressed himself against the wall.
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Well, you keep your place then, Nigger. I could get you strung up on a
tree so easy it ain’t even funny.”
Crooks had reduced himself to nothing. There was no personality, no
ego—nothing to arouse either like or dislike. He said, “Yes, ma’am,”
and his voice was toneless.
For a moment she stood over him as though waiting for him to move so
that she could whip at him again; but Crooks sat perfectly still, his
eyes averted, everything that might be hurt drawn in. She turned at last
to the other two.
Old Candy was watching her, fascinated. “If you was to do that, we’d
tell,” he said quietly. “We’d tell about you framin’ Crooks.”
“Tell an’ be damned,” she cried. “Nobody’d listen to you, an’ you know
it. Nobody’d listen to you.”
Candy subsided. “No … ” he agreed. “Nobody’d listen to us.”
Lennie whined, “I wisht George was here. I wisht George was here.”
Candy stepped over to him. “Don’t you worry none,” he said. “I jus’
heard the guys comin’ in. George’ll be in the bunk house right now, I
bet.” He turned to Curley’s wife. “You better go home now,” he said
quietly. “If you go right now, we won’t tell Curley you was here.”
She appraised him coolly. “I ain’t sure you heard nothing.”
“Better not take no chances,” he said. “If you ain’t sure, you better
take the safe way.”
She turned to Lennie. “I’m glad you bust up Curley a little bit. He got
it comin’ to him. Sometimes I’d like to bust him myself.” She slipped
out the door and disappeared into the dark barn. And while she went
through the barn, the halter chains rattled, and some horses snorted and
some stamped their feet.
Crooks seemed to come slowly out of the layers of protection he had put
on. “Was that the truth what you said about the guys come back?” he
asked.
“Sure. I heard ’em.”
“Well, I didn’t hear nothing.”
“The gate banged,” Candy said, and he went on, “Jesus Christ, Curley’s
wife can move quiet. I guess she had a lot of practice, though.”
Crooks avoided the whole subject now. “Maybe you guys better go,” he
said. “I ain’t sure I want you in here no more. A colored man got to
have some rights even if he don’t like ’em.”
Candy said, “That bitch didn’t ought to of said that to you.”
“It wasn’t nothing,” Crooks said dully. “You guys comin’ in an’ settin’
made me forget. What she says is true.”
The horses snorted out in the barn and the chains rang and a voice
called, “Lennie. Oh, Lennie. You in the barn?”
“It’s George,” Lennie cried. And he answered, “Here, George. I’m right
in here.”
In a second George stood framed in the door, and he looked
disapprovingly about. “What you doin’ in Crooks’ room. You hadn’t ought
to be in here.”
Crooks nodded. “I tol’ ’em, but they come in anyways.”
“Well, why’n’t you kick ’em out?”
“I di’n’t care much,” said Crooks. “Lennie’s a nice fella.”
Now Candy aroused himself. “Oh, George! I been figurin’ and figurin’. I
got it doped out how we can even make some money on them rabbits.”
George scowled. “I thought I tol’ you not to tell nobody about that.”
Candy was crestfallen. “Didn’t tell nobody but Crooks.”
George said, “Well you guys get outta here. Jesus, seems like I can’t go
away for a minute.”
Candy and Lennie stood up and went toward the door. Crooks called,
“Candy!”
“Huh?”
“’Member what I said about hoein’ and doin’ odd jobs?”
“Yeah,” said Candy. “I remember.”
“Well, jus’ forget it,” said Crooks. “I didn’ mean it. Jus’ foolin’. I
wouldn’ want to go no place like that.”
“Well, O.K., if you feel like that. Goodnight.”
The three men went out of the door. As they went through the barn the
horses snorted and the halter chains rattled.
Crooks sat on his bunk and looked at the door for a moment, and then he
reached for the liniment bottle. He pulled out his shirt in back, poured
a little liniment in his pink palm and, reaching around, he fell slowly
to rubbing his back.