 6
6
The deep green pool of the Salinas River was still in the late
afternoon. Already the sun had left the valley to go climbing up the
slopes of the Gabilan mountains, and the hilltops were rosy in the sun.
But by the pool among the mottled sycamores, a pleasant shade had
fallen.
A water snake glided smoothly up the pool, twisting its periscope head
from side to side; and it swam the length of the pool and came to the
legs of a motionless heron that stood in the shallows. A silent head and
beak lanced down and plucked it out by the head, and the beak swallowed
the little snake while its tail waved frantically.
A far rush of wind sounded and a gust drove through the tops of the
trees like a wave. The sycamore leaves turned up their silver sides, the
brown, dry leaves on the ground scudded a few feet. And row on row of
tiny wind waves flowed up the pool’s green surface.
As quickly as it had come, the wind died, and the clearing was quiet
again. The heron stood in the shallows, motionless and waiting. Another
little water snake swam up the pool, turning its periscope head from
side to side.
Suddenly Lennie appeared out of the brush, and he came as silently as a
creeping bear moves. The heron pounded the air with its wings, jacked
itself clear of the water and flew off down river. The little snake slid
in among the reeds at the pool’s side.
Lennie came quietly to the pool’s edge. He knelt down and drank, barely
touching his lips to the water. When a little bird skittered over the
dry leaves behind him, his head jerked up and he strained toward the
sound with eyes and ears until he saw the bird, and then he dropped his
head and drank again.
When he was finished, he sat down on the bank, with his side to the
pool, so that he could watch the trail’s entrance. He embraced his knees
and laid his chin down on his knees.
The light climbed on out of the valley, and as it went, the tops of the
mountains seemed to blaze with increasing brightness.
Lennie said softly, “I di’n’t forget, you bet, God damn. Hide in the
brush an’ wait for George.” He pulled his hat down low over his eyes.
“George gonna give me hell,” he said. “George gonna wish he was alone
an’ not have me botherin’ him.” He turned his head and looked at the
bright mountain tops. “I can go right off there an’ find a cave,” he
said. And he continued sadly, “—an’ never have no ketchup—but I won’t
care. If George don’t want me … I’ll go away. I’ll go away.”
And then from out of Lennie’s head there came a little fat old woman.
She wore thick bull’s–eye glasses and she wore a huge gingham apron with
pockets, and she was starched and clean. She stood in front of Lennie
and put her hands on her hips, and she frowned disapprovingly at him.
And when she spoke, it was in Lennie’s voice. “I tol’ you an’ tol’ you,”
she said. “I tol’ you, ‘Min’ George because he’s such a nice fella an’
good to you.’ But you don’t never take no care. You do bad things.”
And Lennie answered her, “I tried, Aunt Clara, ma’am. I tried and tried.
I couldn’ help it.”
“You never give a thought to George,” she went on in Lennie’s voice. “He
been doin’ nice things for you alla time. When he got a piece a pie you
always got half or more’n half. An’ if they was any ketchup, why he’d
give it all to you.”
“I know,” said Lennie miserably. “I tried, Aunt Clara, ma’am. I tried
and tried.”
She interrupted him. “All the time he coulda had such a good time if it
wasn’t for you. He woulda took his pay an’ raised hell in a whore house,
and he coulda set in a pool room an’ played snooker. But he got to take
care of you.”
Lennie moaned with grief. “I know, Aunt Clara, ma’am. I’ll go right off
in the hills an’ I’ll fin’ a cave an’ I’ll live there so I won’t be no
more trouble to George.”
“You jus’ say that,” she said sharply. “You’re always sayin’ that, an’
you know sonofabitching well you ain’t never gonna do it. You’ll jus’
stick around an’ stew the b’Jesus outa George all the time.”
Lennie said, “I might jus’ as well go away. George ain’t gonna let me
tend no rabbits now.”
Aunt Clara was gone, and from out of Lennie’s head there came a gigantic
rabbit. It sat on its haunches in front of him, and it waggled its ears
and crinkled its nose at him. And it spoke in Lennie’s voice too.
“Tend rabbits,” it said scornfully. “You crazy bastard. You ain’t fit to
lick the boots of no rabbit. You’d forget ’em and let ’em go hungry.
That’s what you’d do. An’ then what would George think?”
“I would not forget,” Lennie said loudly.
“The hell you wouldn’,” said the rabbit. “You ain’t worth a greased
jack–pin to ram you into hell. Christ knows George done ever’thing he
could to jack you outa the sewer, but it don’t do no good. If you think
George gonna let you tend rabbits, you’re even crazier’n usual. He
ain’t. He’s gonna beat hell outa you with a stick, that’s what he’s
gonna do.”
Now Lennie retorted belligerently, “He ain’t neither. George won’t do
nothing like that. I’ve knew George since—I forget when—and he ain’t
never raised his han’ to me with a stick. He’s nice to me. He ain’t
gonna be mean.”
“Well he’s sick of you,” said the rabbit. “He’s gonna beat hell outa you
an’ then go away an’ leave you.”
“He won’t,” Lennie cried frantically. “He won’t do nothing like that. I
know George. Me an’ him travels together.”
But the rabbit repeated softly over and over, “He gonna leave you, ya
crazy bastard. He gonna leave ya all alone. He gonna leave ya, crazy
bastard.”
Lennie put his hands over his ears. “He ain’t, I tell ya he ain’t.” And
he cried, “Oh! George—George—George!”
George came quietly out of the brush and the rabbit scuttled back into
Lennie’s brain.
George said quietly, “What the hell you yellin’ about?”
Lennie got up on his knees. “You ain’t gonna leave me, are ya, George? I
know you ain’t.”
George came stiffly near and sat down beside him. “No.”
“I knowed it,” Lennie cried. “You ain’t that kind.”
George was silent.
Lennie said, “George.”
“Yeah?”
“I done another bad thing.”
“It don’t make no difference,” George said, and he fell silent again.
Only the topmost ridges were in the sun now. The shadow in the valley
was blue and soft. From the distance came the sound of men shouting to
one another. George turned his head and listened to the shouts.
Lennie said, “George.”
“Yeah?”
“Ain’t you gonna give me hell?”
“Give ya hell?”
“Sure, like you always done before. Like, ‘If I di’n’t have you I’d take
my fifty bucks—’”
“Jesus Christ, Lennie! You can’t remember nothing that happens, but you
remember ever’ word I say.”
“Well, ain’t you gonna say it?”
George shook himself. He said woodenly, “If I was alone I could live so
easy.” His voice was monotonous, had no emphasis. “I could get a job an’
not have no mess.” He stopped.
“Go on,” said Lennie. “An’ when the enda the month come—”
“An’ when the end of the month come I could take my fifty bucks an’ go
to a … cat house … ” He stopped again.
Lennie looked eagerly at him. “Go on, George. Ain’t you gonna give me no
more hell?”
“No,” said George.
“Well, I can go away,” said Lennie. “I’ll go right off in the hills an’
find a cave if you don’ want me.”
George shook himself again. “No,” he said. “I want you to stay with me
here.”
Lennie said craftily—“Tell me like you done before.”
“Tell you what?”
“’Bout the other guys an’ about us.”
George said, “Guys like us got no fambly. They make a little stake an’
then they blow it in. They ain’t got nobody in the worl’ that gives a
hoot in hell about ’em—”
“But not us,” Lennie cried happily. “Tell about us now.”
George was quiet for a moment. “But not us,” he said.
“Because—”
“Because I got you an’—”
“An’ I got you. We got each other, that’s what, that gives a hoot in
hell about us,” Lennie cried in triumph.
The little evening breeze blew over the clearing and the leaves rustled
and the wind waves flowed up the green pool. And the shouts of men
sounded again, this time much closer than before.
George took off his hat. He said shakily, “Take off your hat, Lennie.
The air feels fine.”
Lennie removed his hat dutifully and laid it on the ground in front of
him. The shadow in the valley was bluer, and the evening came fast. On
the wind the sound of crashing in the brush came to them.
Lennie said, “Tell how it’s gonna be.”
George had been listening to the distant sounds. For a moment he was
business–like. “Look acrost the river, Lennie, an’ I’ll tell you so you
can almost see it.”
Lennie turned his head and looked off across the pool and up the
darkening slopes of the Gabilans. “We gonna get a little place,” George
began. He reached in his side pocket and brought out Carlson’s Luger; he
snapped off the safety, and the hand and gun lay on the ground behind
Lennie’s back. He looked at the back of Lennie’s head, at the place
where the spine and skull were joined.
A man’s voice called from up the river, and another man answered.
“Go on,” said Lennie.
George raised the gun and his hand shook, and he dropped his hand to the
ground again.
“Go on,” said Lennie. “How’s it gonna be. We gonna get a little place.”
“We’ll have a cow,” said George. “An’ we’ll have maybe a pig an’
chickens … an’ down the flat we’ll have a … little piece
alfalfa——”
“For the rabbits,” Lennie shouted.
“For the rabbits,” George repeated.
“And I get to tend the rabbits.”
“An’ you get to tend the rabbits.”
Lennie giggled with happiness. “An’ live on the fatta the lan’.”
“Yes.”
Lennie turned his head.
“No, Lennie. Look down there acrost the river, like you can almost see
the place.”
Lennie obeyed him. George looked down at the gun.
There were crashing footsteps in the brush now. George turned and looked
toward them.
“Go on, George. When we gonna do it?”
“Gonna do it soon.”
“Me an’ you.”
“You … an’ me. Ever’body gonna be nice to you. Ain’t gonna be no
more trouble. Nobody gonna hurt nobody nor steal from ’em.”
Lennie said, “I thought you was mad at me, George.”
“No,” said George. “No, Lennie. I ain’t mad. I never been mad, an’ I
ain’t now. That’s a thing I want ya to know.”
The voices came close now. George raised the gun and listened to the
voices.
Lennie begged, “Le’s do it now. Le’s get that place now.”
“Sure, right now. I gotta. We gotta.”
And George raised the gun and steadied it, and he brought the muzzle of
it close to the back of Lennie’s head. The hand shook violently, but his
face set and his hand steadied. He pulled the trigger. The crash of the
shot rolled up the hills and rolled down again. Lennie jarred, and then
settled slowly forward to the sand, and he lay without quivering.
George shivered and looked at the gun, and then he threw it from him,
back up on the bank, near the pile of old ashes.
The brush seemed filled with cries and with the sound of running feet.
Slim’s voice shouted, “George. Where you at, George?”
But George sat stiffly on the bank and looked at his right hand that had
thrown the gun away. The group burst into the clearing, and Curley was
ahead. He saw Lennie lying on the sand. “Got him, by God.” He went over
and looked down at Lennie, and then he looked back at George. “Right in
the back of the head,” he said softly.
Slim came directly to George and sat down beside him, sat very close to
him. “Never you mind,” said Slim. “A guy got to sometimes.”
But Carlson was standing over George. “How’d you do it?” he asked.
“I just done it,” George said tiredly.
“Did he have my gun?”
“Yeah. He had your gun.”
“An’ you got it away from him and you took it an’ you killed him?”
“Yeah. Tha’s how.” George’s voice was almost a whisper. He looked
steadily at his right hand that had held the gun.
Slim twitched George’s elbow. “Come on, George. Me an’ you’ll go in an’
get a drink.”
George let himself be helped to his feet. “Yeah, a drink.”
Slim said, “You hadda, George. I swear you hadda. Come on with me.” He
led George into the entrance of the trail and up toward the highway.
Curley and Carlson looked after them. And Carlson said, “Now what the
hell ya suppose is eatin’ them two guys?”